feat(wips): WIP-1001 & WIP-1002 final draft (#511)
worldcoin/world-chain: wips/wip-1001.md

The key words "MUST", "MUST NOT", "REQUIRED", "SHALL", "SHALL NOT", "SHOULD", "SHOULD NOT", "RECOMMENDED", "NOT RECOMMENDED", "MAY", and "OPTIONAL" in this document are to be interpreted as described in [RFC 2119](https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc2119) and [RFC 8174](https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc8174).

### Constants

| Name                          | Value                                        | Description                                                 |
| ----------------------------- | -------------------------------------------- | ----------------------------------------------------------- |
| `WORLD_TX_TYPE`               | `0x1D`                                       | [EIP-2718](https://eips.ethereum.org/EIPS/eip-2718) tx type |
| `WORLD_CHAIN_RP_ID`           | `480`                                        | World Chain's registered RP ID                              |
| `WORLD_ID_KEYRING_PRECOMPILE` | `0x000000000000000000000000000000000000001D` | Stateful precompile managing the keyring registry           |
| `WORLD_ID_KEYRING_TAG`        | `"WORLD_ID_KEYRING"` (UTF-8, 16 bytes)       | Domain tag for keyring Uniqueness Proof actions                  |

> | `MAX_SESSION_KEYS`            | `20`                                         | Maximum authorized session keys per keyring                 |

Reviewer: NIT: What is the reasoning behind the number 20?

Reviewer 2: Agreed, what is the point of restricting this value at all?

---

### KeyRing Model

> A *World ID Key Ring* is an account whose authorized signatory set `MUST` be gated by a World ID 4.0 Uniqueness Proof. Its address derives from the keyring nullifier $\nu_k$ of the initial creation Uniqueness Proof, itself a deterministic function of the owning WorldID identity and a user-chosen `nonce`. A single WorldID MAY manage any number of keyrings by variation over the `nonce`.

Reviewer: The name 'World ID Key Ring' is a bit confusing. Why not call it just 'World ID Account'?

Reviewer 2: I don't mind keyring

> A *World ID Key Ring* is an account whose authorized signatory set `MUST` be gated by a World ID 4.0 Uniqueness Proof. Its address derives from the keyring nullifier $\nu_k$ of the initial creation Uniqueness Proof, itself a deterministic function of the owning WorldID identity and a user-chosen `nonce`. A single WorldID MAY manage any number of keyrings by variation over the `nonce`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A *World ID Key Ring* is an account whose authorized signatory set `MUST` be gated by a World ID 4.0 Uniqueness Proof. Its address derives from the keyring nullifier $\nu_k$ of the initial creation Uniqueness Proof, itself a deterministic function of the owning WorldID identity and a user-chosen `nonce`. A single WorldID MAY manage any number of keyrings by variation over the `nonce`. A user `SHOULD NOT` choose nonces with high entropy, as an account can not be recovered without knowledge of the nonce. I.e. loosing a high entropy nonce results in loosing the corersponding account, WorldID recovery can not help here.
```

*Session keys* are abstract signatories authorized to sign `0x1D` transactions on behalf of the keyring; they carry no intrinsic privileges beyond signing. Per-key permissions (expiry, spend limits, call scopes) are out of scope for this WIP (see §Extensions).

#### Uniqueness Proof

Every keyring is updated via a single World ID 4.0 Uniqueness Proof parameterized by:

- `rpId = WORLD_CHAIN_RP_ID`
- `action = keccak256(abi.encodePacked(WORLD_ID_KEYRING_TAG, uint256(nonce)))`
- `signalHash = uint256(keccak256(abi.encode(update))) >> 8`

where `update` is a `KeyringUpdate` (§Signal Semantics).

> The keyring nullifier $\nu_k$ is **NOT** marked spent. A keyring accepts any number of Uniqueness Proofs over its lifetime — a single WorldID may freely create, add to, remove from, or cease interacting with keyrings at arbitrary nonces.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The keyring nullifier $\nu_k$ is **NOT** marked spent. A keyring accepts any number of Uniqueness Proofs over its lifetime. Uniqueness proofs are used to manage the set session keys in the keyring.
```

| `P256` | `0x01` | [secp256r1](https://neuromancer.sk/std/nist/P-256) (NIST P-256)                         | 64 bytes — uncompressed `(x, y)`                                                            |
| `WebAuthn`  | `0x02` | [secp256r1](https://neuromancer.sk/std/nist/P-256) (NIST P-256)                         | 64 bytes — uncompressed `(x, y)` (P256 under [WebAuthn](https://www.w3.org/TR/webauthn-3/)) |
| `EdDSA`     | `0x03` | [edwards25519](https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/rfc8032#section-5.1)               | 32 bytes — compressed public key (Ed25519)                                                  |

#### Signal Semantics

```solidity
enum UpdateMode { Create, Add, Remove }

struct KeyringUpdate {
    UpdateMode   mode;
    SessionKey[] keys;
}
```

- **`Create`** — installs `keys` as the full session key set at $\mathrm{addr}(\nu_k)$. MUST revert if the keyring already exists, if `keys.length == 0`, or if `keys.length > MAX_SESSION_KEYS`.
- **`Add`** — appends `keys` to the existing set. MUST revert if the keyring does not exist, if any key is already present, or if the resulting set exceeds `MAX_SESSION_KEYS`.

> - **`Remove`** — removes each entry in `keys` from the existing set. MUST revert if the keyring does not exist or if any key is absent. The set MAY become empty; a keyring with zero session keys exists but cannot sign transactions until the next `Add`.

Reviewer: NIT: We could think about only having a single **`Set`** operation

> - **`Remove`** — removes each entry in `keys` from the existing set. MUST revert if the keyring does not exist or if any key is absent. The set MAY become empty; a keyring with zero session keys exists but cannot sign transactions until the next `Add`.

Reviewer: Maybe, I'm missing something, but we need a update (key ring version/generarion) nonce as well. Otherwise anyone could just reply e.g., a key addition, right?

Reviewer 2: yeah I think you're right.

Author: Yes, we need a nonce

| -------------------------------------------------------- | --------------------------------------------------- |
| `0x00` [Secp256k1](https://en.bitcoin.it/wiki/Secp256k1) | `rlp([y_parity, r, s])`                             |
| `0x01` [P256](https://neuromancer.sk/std/nist/P-256)     | `rlp([r, s])`                                       |
| `0x02` [WebAuthn](https://www.w3.org/TR/webauthn-3/)     | `rlp([authenticator_data, client_data_json, r, s])` |
| `0x03` [EdDSA](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/EdDSA)      | `rlp([R, s])`                                       |

#### Validation

1. Recover the session public key from `(signature_type, signature_payload, signing_hash)`.
2. Assert `IWorldIDKeyRing.isAuthorized(keyring, recovered_key)`.

The envelope is extensible to 2D nonces, batched transactions, and native paymaster support in follow-on WIPs.

---

### Extensions

- **Per-key permissions.** Session keys MAY be extended with `(expiry, spendLimit, CallScope[])` metadata enforced by the precompile during `0x1D` validation. This extends `SessionKey` and the `KeyringUpdate` signal; the Uniqueness Proof continues to bind the full permission set via **(G5)**.

> - **Cross-update unlinkability within a nonce.** Updates at a single nonce share a nullifier, so a keyring's own update history is linkable to itself across time (unlinkability *across* nonces is preserved). A chained-nullifier scheme is deferred.

Reviewer: Not sure if I understand how this would work. We always need a stable address, which would always allow to link together the updates, right?

- **Bundling, 2D nonces, paymasters.** Reserved for follow-on WIPs on the `0x1D` envelope.
- **Smart Account backwards compatibility.** Existing smart accounts SHOULD be able to delegate authentication via a WorldID keyring. This reduces to a 4337 module upgrade permitting execution from entrants other than the EntryPoint.

---

## Rationale

> **Keyring state as precompile.** The session key set lives in a precompile because `0x1D` signature validation happens at the protocol level and must read the authorized set natively. The same precompile owns the Uniqueness Proof verification path, ensuring the address-to-keyset map is only mutated under a valid World ID 4.0 Uniqueness Proof.

Reviewer: I guess we could mention here that we could also use a predeploy

| `0x01` [P256](https://neuromancer.sk/std/nist/P-256)     | `rlp([r, s])`                                       |
| `0x02` [WebAuthn](https://www.w3.org/TR/webauthn-3/)     | `rlp([authenticator_data, client_data_json, r, s])` |
| `0x03` [EdDSA](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/EdDSA)      | `rlp([R, s])`                                       |

#### Validation

1. Recover the session public key from `(signature_type, signature_payload, signing_hash)`.
2. Assert `IWorldIDKeyRing.isAuthorized(keyring, recovered_key)`.

The envelope is extensible to 2D nonces, batched transactions, and native paymaster support in follow-on WIPs.

---

### Extensions

- **Per-key permissions.** Session keys MAY be extended with `(expiry, spendLimit, CallScope[])` metadata enforced by the precompile during `0x1D` validation. This extends `SessionKey` and the `KeyringUpdate` signal; the World ID proof continues to bind the full permission set via **(G5)**.
- **Session rotation.** Replacing a keyring's stored `sessionId` with a newly-created session without re-creating the keyring is deferred.
- **Bundling, 2D nonces, paymasters.** Reserved for follow-on WIPs on the `0x1D` envelope.

> - **Smart Account backwards compatibility.** Existing smart accounts SHOULD be able to delegate authentication via a WorldID keyring. This reduces to a 4337 module upgrade permitting execution from entrants other than the EntryPoint.

Reviewer 3: The cleanest would be to make a new Safe module for compatibility, and not touch anything in the existing 4337 stack. This should be relatively simple.

**No sybil constraint on keyrings.** Unlinkability across `keyringNonce` values is a stronger property than one-keyring-per-identity, and sybil resistance at the account layer is not the right locus — it belongs to whatever system consumes keyring addresses (e.g., gas subsidy accounting, PBH, application-layer rate limits), which can bind its own per-WorldID limits via independent nullifier domains.

**Recovery timelock.** Without a delay, a compromised WorldID authenticator could instantly replace all session keys and drain the account. The timelock gives existing session key holders a window to detect and cancel malicious changes.

---

## Backwards Compatibility

This WIP introduces a new account type and transaction type. Existing EOAs and smart contract accounts are unaffected. Standard [EIP-1559](https://eips.ethereum.org/EIPS/eip-1559) transactions continue to work for legacy accounts; the `0x1D` envelope is required only for keyring-authenticated execution.

### Existing Safe Accounts

> Existing [Safe](https://safe.global) accounts MAY adopt a WorldID Key Ring as an authenticator without migrating assets or changing the Safe address. The integration reduces to installing a module that gates execution on `msg.sender` matching a bound Key Ring address; because a `0x1D` transaction's sender is the Key Ring itself, no additional signature verification is required at the Safe layer — protocol-level validation against `IWorldIDKeyRing.isAuthorized` already gates execution upstream.

Reviewer 3: that works

| Status      | Draft                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          |
| Category    | Core                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           |
| Created     | 2026/03/27                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     |
| Requires    | [EIP-2718](https://eips.ethereum.org/EIPS/eip-2718), [EIP-1559](https://eips.ethereum.org/EIPS/eip-1559), [ERC-4337](https://eips.ethereum.org/EIPS/eip-4337)                                                                                                                  |

## Abstract

> A *World ID Key Ring* is a precompile-managed account whose creation is gated by a [World ID](https://worldcoin.org/world-id) 4.0 Uniqueness Proof over [OPRF](https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/rfc9497/), and whose subsequent mutations are gated by Session Proofs bound to a per-keyring session. We extend [EIP-2718](https://eips.ethereum.org/EIPS/eip-2718) with a typed transaction envelope (`0x1D`) signed by any authorized *session key* of a keyring.

Reviewer 4: can we be more verbose about the fact that the key ring address is stable and persistent, e.g.:

`A World ID Key Ring is a precompile-managed account with a deterministic, lifetime-stable address derived from its creation nullifier (addr(ν_k) = bytes20(keccak256(ν_k))). Because the keyring is a first-class account on World Chain and its authorized signer set is read natively by the protocol during transaction validation, keyrings achieve native account abstraction`

A single WorldID `MAY` manage any number of keyrings indexed by a user-chosen `keyringNonce`; keyrings owned by the same WorldID are unlinkable across distinct `keyringNonce` values. A keyring is created by a Uniqueness Proof over its `keyringNonce`; creation also installs a fresh `sessionId` bound to that keyring. Session keys are then added, removed, and rotated via fresh Session Proofs over the stored `sessionId`. Recovery from lost or compromised session keys is the degenerate case of the same upgrade path, protected by a configurable timelock.

Keyring state lives natively in the `WORLD_ID_KEYRING_PRECOMPILE`. There is no per-WorldID uniqueness constraint, no generation counter, and no account recycling — a *World ID Account* is a public identifier for a *World ID* managed set of session keys, importantly it is not an identity anchor.

---

### Design Rationale and Motivation

#### Computational Sustainability & World Chain UX

> Enshrining smart-account authenticators as protocol-level signature verification algorithms lets us jointly optimize transaction gas, expose a simple multi-auth API over familiar authenticators ([Passkey](https://www.w3.org/TR/webauthn-3/) [WebAuthn](https://www.w3.org/TR/webauthn-3/), [P256](https://neuromancer.sk/std/nist/P-256), [ECDSA](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Elliptic_Curve_Digital_Signature_Algorithm), [EdDSA](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/EdDSA)), minimize confirmation time, and remove the need for bundler infrastructure.

Reviewer 5: why minimizing confirmation time? I don't see a correlation with this wip

Author: By removing the interaction with the Bundler

#### World ID 4.0 Proofs as Authorization
Authorizing keyring creation with a World ID 4.0 Uniqueness Proof and subsequent mutations with Session Proofs — rather than a signing key — converges key rotation and recovery onto a single proof-verification path after enrollment: a fresh session proof. No "super key" is ever stored on-device. A `keyringNonce`-indexed action lets a single WorldID own unlinkably many keyrings.

## Specification

The key words "MUST", "MUST NOT", "REQUIRED", "SHALL", "SHALL NOT", "SHOULD", "SHOULD NOT", "RECOMMENDED", "NOT RECOMMENDED", "MAY", and "OPTIONAL" in this document are to be interpreted as described in [RFC 2119](https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc2119) and [RFC 8174](https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc8174).

### Constants

| Name                          | Value                                        | Description                                                 |
| ----------------------------- | -------------------------------------------- | ----------------------------------------------------------- |
| `WORLD_TX_TYPE`               | `0x1D`                                       | [EIP-2718](https://eips.ethereum.org/EIPS/eip-2718) tx type |

> | `WORLD_CHAIN_RP_ID`           | `480`                                        | World Chain's registered RP ID                              |

Reviewer 5: question: the RP should be able to sign the proof request to send to the OPRF nodes, how can world-chain sign proofs?

Reviewer 5: maybe I'm reading this wrong, but from what I read here it seems like world chain itself acts as the RP. Therefore it's important to outline in a detailed way the entire workflow

Reviewer 5: or in general the question can be: who's the actual RP that registers into the contract and then requests (and sign) proofs?

Reviewer 5: if it's a smart contract, it needs to be wip101 compliant

#### Keyring Address

$$\mathrm{addr}(\nu_k) = \mathrm{bytes20}(\mathrm{keccak256}(\nu_k))$$

The address is fixed for the lifetime of the keyring. Session key rotation does **NOT** change the address.

#### Session Keys

```solidity
enum KeyType { Secp256k1, P256, WebAuthn, EdDSA }

struct SessionKey {
    KeyType keyType;
    bytes   keyData;
}
```

| `KeyType`   | Value  | Elliptic Curve                                                                          | `keyData`                                                                                   |
| ----------- | ------ | --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `Secp256k1` | `0x00` | [secp256k1](https://en.bitcoin.it/wiki/Secp256k1)                                       | 33 bytes — compressed public key                                                            |
| `P256` | `0x01` | [secp256r1](https://neuromancer.sk/std/nist/P-256) (NIST P-256)                         | 64 bytes — uncompressed `(x, y)`                                                            |

> | `WebAuthn`  | `0x02` | [secp256r1](https://neuromancer.sk/std/nist/P-256) (NIST P-256)                         | 64 bytes — uncompressed `(x, y)` (P256 under [WebAuthn](https://www.w3.org/TR/webauthn-3/)) |

Reviewer 6: why not compress those as well?
